			Rogue Documentation
			     for all around help...


Scrolls
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ Enchant Weapon	"...your mace twists in your hand."    Helps weapon
+ Enchant Armor 	"...your ring mail glows blue."	       Helps armor
- Nothing		"...you hear a rustling in the shadows." or
        		"...this scroll appears to be blank."   No effect
+ Teleportation 	no message       Puts you somewhere else on the level.
- Summon Monster	no message       Brings a monster next to you.
+ Remove Curse  	"...you feel as if someone is watching over you."
		        removes the curses of all that you are using.  NOT off
			of items in your inventory.
+ Identify		"...this is a scroll of identify-What do you want to
			identfy?" Will give the name/details about the item
			you give it.
++Genocide		"You have been granted the boon of Genocide!-Which
			monster?"  Elliminates the specific monster for the
			rest of the game.  Very Rare!!!  Best used against
			monster with special attacks or very tough ones.
+ Magic Mapping		"...there appears to be a map on this scroll."
			Displays all walls, doors and corridors on that level.
+ Fear			"...you hear maniacal laughter in the distance." Causes
			all monsters to be afraid of you for a few moves.  If
			cornered, they will not fight back.
- Close Portal		It closes all doors in the room that you are in.  If
			you search, they will open back up.
+ Experience		"Suddenly you feel more skillful. Welcome to level _"
			Moves you up 1 experience level.

Staffs and Wands
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ Drain Life		One blast from this will kill whatever you aim it at
			with a few noteable exceptions (see monsters for those
			unaffected).
+ Fire			Hits monsters very hard:  10-30 points.
+ Lightning		Hits monsters very hard:  10-30 points.
+ Cold			Hits monsters very hard:  10-30 points.
+ Magic Missile		Hits monsters lightly:  1-10 points.
+ Striking		Hits monsters lightly:  1-10 points.
-+Polymorph		Transforms the monster into another type of monster.
			Weak ones get strong, and vice-versa.
+ Teleport Away		Teleports the monster away.
+ Teleport To		Teleports you to some other part of the level.
+ Curing		Adds some points to your hit point total: 10-20
- Nothing		Does nothing.
+-Wonder		It can do what any of the other staffs/wands do.  A
			random staff is chosen each time you fire it and it
			will act like that staff for that one shot.  It can
			also do bizarre things like say, "A stream of butter-
			flies fly forth" or "Wow" or "You are eating dinner
			with the Cleavers." The latter satisfies your hunger
			if you are hungry or weak.
+ Alchemy		It will pick a random item out of your inventory and
			turn it into something else.  It can turn a ration of
			food into a potion, etc. If you drop all your good
			things in a room that has no traps, and keep all your
			bad things, you may be able to transform your junk
			into something usefull.
- Haste Monster 	Give monster 2 moves for your 1.
+ Search 		Shows you traps and closed doors.

Once the wand does "nothing" it is exhausted of its magic and does nothing.

Potions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ Strength		"You feel much stronger now.  What Bulging Muscles!!"
			Increases you strength by +1.
+ Dexterity		"You feel more nimble now.  Impressive!"  Increases
			your dexterity by +1.
+ Intelligence		"You feel smarter now.  What a brain!"  Increases your
			intelligence by +1.
- Poison		"You feel sick now."  Decreases your strength by -1.
- Fumbling		"You feel clumsy now.:  Decreases your dex by -1.
- Feeblemindedness	"You feel stupid now."  Decreases your int by -1.
+ Regain Strength	"Hey! This potion tastes great-it makes you feel warm
			all over!"  Restores all your strength.
+ Regain Dexterity	"The potion sends a tingling throughout your entire
			body-Wow!"  Restores all your dexterity.
+ Regain Intelligence	"The potion makes your head spin, but now you feel
			great."  Restores all your intelligence.
+ Magic Detection	"You sense the presence of magic"  Will display all
			magic items on the level (potions, scrolls, staffs,
			enchanted weapons, rings)
+ Gold detection	"You feel greedy and sense the presence of gold."
			Will display all gold on the level.
+ Monster Detection	"...You sense the presence of monsters."  Displays all
			monsters on the level for several moves, even the 
			invisible ones.  This will continue to work if you go 
			down the stairs (unlike other potions).
- Confusion		"You feel confused."  Makes your movements go in random
			directions for a few moves.  Spaces and staffs are
			unaffected. (you sit still and your aim is straight.)
+ Confuse Monster	"Your hands glow red and then fades."  The next monster
			you hit will be confused for a few moves.
- Sleep			"you fall asleep"  The monsters all get a few free
			moves while you are asleep.
- Paralization		"You are frozen to the spot-You can move again."  Same
			as sleep.
- Slow Self		"You are moving slower now."  Gives monsters 2 moves
			to your 1 for a few moves.
+ Haste Self		"You feel yourself moving much faster now."  You get 2
			moves for every 1 the monsters get for a few moves.
- Blindness		"A cloak of darkness falls around you."  The screen
			will go blank for a very long time.  A lot of spaces or
			quaffing a healing/extra healing potion will remedy
			this horror of all potions.  Zapping a staff of curing
			will fix it too.
+ Healing		"You begin to feel better." or "You feel more virile."
			The first message add some hit points to your total.
			(about 10-20)  The second message adds 1 to your hit
			point potential.
+ Extra Healing		"You begin to feel much better." or "You feel much more
			virile."  Same as healing except it will add about
			15-30 points to your hit point total.
+ See Invisible		"Tastes like the fruit of (your fruit)"  You see invi-
			sible monsters for the level you are on.  Lasts for
			several moves.

There are a lot of messages like, "You're not sure what that potion did" or
"a bit of yellow liquid dribbles down your chin." Meaning that you quaffed a
potion whose effects were not noticible because it was not needed.  The game is
basically saying that it's not going to tell you what that potion does.

Rings
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+ Searching		Enables you to see most of the secret doors and traps.
+ Stealth		Causes a higher percentage of monsters to be asleep.
+ Vampiric Regeneration	You will receive a percentage of the points that you
			hit the monster for back on your total.  In other words
			whenever you hit a monster, a few points will be added
			to your own total.
+ Regeneration		1 point will be added to your hit point total for every
			move or rest you make.  This ring burns food at twice
			the normal rate when being worn.  Use with CARE!!
++Invisibility		When worn, you will be invisible to the monsters a
			certain amount of the time (10-50%).  This means they
			will occasionally move in the wrong direction when
			trying to hit or chase you.  This ring also burns food
			at twice the usual rate.  This is the most RARE item
			in the entire dungeon!!!
+ Slow Digestion	Makes you use food at about 1/2 the usual rate.
+-Increase Damage	+-n Will add or subtract to the power of your hits by
			n.
+-Protection n		Will make your armor imune to rust monsters.  Will also
			affect you armor class by n.  Even if n<0 (ie. n is
			added to your Ac making it less effective).
+ Teleportation		Will randomly teleport you around the dungeon level.
			This ring is usually cursed, but can be usefull for
			escaping tight spots once you have removed the curse.
- Aggravate Monster	This will cause less of the monsters to be asleep and
			fight more fiercly.  This is usually cursed.
+-n Strength		Affects your strength by n
+-n Dexterity		Affects your dexterity by n
+-n Intelligence	Affects you intelligence by n
+ Resurection 		Will enable you to die and be resurrected ONCE.  Once
			the ring has saved you, you cannot remove it unless you
			wish to die immediately.

Weapons
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Two Handed Sword	Best possible weapon:  Hits for 3-18 points
Silver Long Sword	Second best weapon:  Hits for 1-10 points
Long Sword		Same as Silver long sword except no silver effect.
			Won't kill "w" of "V".
Mace			Standard issue weapon:  Hits for 1-6 points
Short Bow		Ammunition = arrows or silver arrows.  Hits for 1-5 or
			1-8(silver)
Crossbow		Ammunition = Bolts.  Hits for 1-5 points
Sling			Ammunition = Rocks.  Hits for 1-5 points
Dagger			Can be weilded or thrown effectively.  Hits for 1-6
			points.  Usually cursed.


Monsters
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"a"	Almiraj 	wimp.
"A"	Giant Ant	Special Attack = may sting you and take away dexterity
			points; medium wimp.
"b"	Blindheim	Special Attack = his gaze may blind you temporarily;
			medium.
"B"	Bat		wimp.
"c"	Crypt Thing	Special Attack = may teleport you away from him during
			battle;medium wimp
"C"	Centaur		medium tough
"d"	Death Knight	Special Attack = extremely magically resistant-can even
			survive drain life blasts;  he weilds a two handed
			sword with great bonuses which he wails on you with or
			drops if you kill him; extremely tough!!!
"D" 	Dragon		extremely tough!!!
"e"	Ettin		Very tough.
"E"	Floating Eye	Special Attack = can temporarily freeze you; wimp
"f"	Flind		weak
"F"	Violent Fungi	Special Attack = will ensnare you after it hits you;
			medium
"g"	Githyanki	weilds a silver long sword which he drops if you kill
			him; tough
"G"	Gnoll		weak
"h"	Homonculous	Special Attack = can put you to sleep for a while;
			weak
"H"	Hobgoblin	weak
"i"	Intelect 	Special Attack = his ego wip may take intelligence
           Devourer	points; tough
"I"	Invisible Stalker  Special Attack = he is invisible; tough
"j"	Juiblex		Special Attack = he is a deamon which means he cannot
			be harmed by silver weapons.  He stands over the Amulet
			of Yendor which is the goal of the game.  He is always
			placed exactly once on lever 26 or 27.  He almost never
			misses and is capable of hitting for 40!!!
			Extremely Extremely Tough!!!!!
"J"	Jackel		wimp
"k"	Killmoulis	wimp that can be on any level
"K"	Kobold		wimp
"l"	Larva		wimp
"L"	Leprechaun	Special Attack = can steal some of your gold if you
			battle him up close, but will drop some gold if you
			kill him; medium tough
"m"	Minotaur	medium tough
"M"	Mimic		Special Attack = looks like an item until you try to
			pick it up, he will ensnare you if he hits you.  He
			is unable to move; tough
"n"	Norker		weak
"N"	Nymph		Special Attack = can steal an item out of your pack if
			you battle her up close, but will drop a magic item if
			you kill here; medium tough
"o"	Owlbear		very tough
"O"	Orc		wimp



"p"	Phantom Stalker Special Attack = he is invisible and can polymorph into
			any other monster; medium tough
"P"	Purple worm	Special Attack = may swallow you whole-you get a few
			turns to kill it from inside before he digests you and
			thus kills you.  While you are inside, he does not hit
			you, but he hits hard while you are on the outside;
			medium tough
"q"	Quagoth		weak
"Q"	Quasit		Special Attack = magic resistant, difficult to hit;
			fairly tough
"r"	Revenant	Special Attack = can paralize you with fear for a few
			moves; very tough
"R"	Rust Monster	Special Attack = can rust your armor down a point, but
			he does not hit you; nasty but wimp
"s"	Sandman		Special Attack = can put you to sleep temporarily and
			then may disapear, but doesn't hit you; weak
"S"	Snake		difficult to hit; wimp
"t"	Tirapheg	weak
"T"	Troll		Special Attack = may drop something if you kill him;
			very tough
"u"	Umpleby		Special Attack = may zap you with electricity, is
			immune to lightning staffs; fairly tough
"U"	Umber hunk	Special Attack = can confuse you temporarily; extremely
			tough!!! Hits for 40. Hardly misses.  DON'T Fuck with.
"v"	Vodyandi	extrememly tough!!! DON'T Fuck with.
"V"	Vampire		Special Attack = must be hit with silver weapons, if he
			bites you he will drop you a whole experience level!!;
			tough
"w"	Werewolf	Special Attack = must be hit with silver weapons; weak
"W"	Wraith		Special Attack = may take strength points, difficult to
			hit; tough
"x"	Xvart		weak
"X"	Xorn		extremely tough!!!  
"y"	Yulgrin		medium
"Y"	Yeti		Special Attack = immune to cold staffs; fairly tough
"z"	Zallige		Special Attack = immune to drain life staffs; extremely
			tough!!!  
"Z"	Zombie		weak
